edit: reworks the enhanced workflow doc single page (#1603)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/development_suite/set-up-infrastructure/migration-and-creation-project.md

---
id: migration-and-creation-project
title: Migrate or Create Project with the Enhanced Workflow
sidebar_label: Migrate or Create new Project
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

> In order to have some project with Enhanced Workflow, you can create new projects with the feature already enabled or you can migrate some existing projects on which you are administrator from the Standard to the Enhanced Workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to adopt the Enhanced Workflow on your Projects, you can either create new Projects with this feature already enabled or migrate already existing Projects from the Standard to the Enhanced Workflow.
```

### Create a new Project with Enhanced Workflow

Newly created Projects will use the **Enhanced Project Workflow** by default from the very first moment of their life following the [Project creation process](/console/project-configuration/create-a-project.mdx#creation-process).

:::info

> Disabling the `Enable the Enhanced Project Workflow` switch, it is still possible to create new project with the Standard Workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By disabling the `Enable the Enhanced Project Workflow` switch, it is still possible to create a new Project with the Standard Workflow
```

![deployment strategy selection](./img/settings-deployment-strategy-edit.png)
:::

## Migrate existing Projects

To enable the **Enhanced Project Workflow** on an existing Project, head to the **Advanced** tab in the [**Project Settings**](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md) page and press the *Convert to Enhanced Workflow* button.

![deployment strategy selection](./img/settings-advanced-convert-button.png)

:::caution
Enabling the Workflow on an existing Project will not make any changes to the Project repository, so make sure to follow the [migration guide](#migrating-your-projects) below before converting the Project to the new workflow.
:::

<details>
<summary>Enable the Workflow on a whole Company</summary>

If you want to ensure that all Projects in your Company adopt the **Enhanced Project Workflow**, you can open a service request and ask for the support of a Mia-Platform referent in order to activate the `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle at Company level. The activation of this feature at the Company level also disallows the creation of new Projects with the Standard Workflow.

</details>

### Steps to migrate your Projects

> In order for the migration to succeed, though, there are some manual adjustments that need to be performed, which can be summarized with the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for the migration to succeed, there are some manual adjustments that need to be performed, which can be summarized with the following steps:
```

 - Secret Variables security enforcement
 - Git repository structure clean-up
 - Feature activation
 - Default revision setup and adjustment of a few Project Settings

#### Secret Variables Security Enforcement

Despite secrets providers are supported in the **Enhanced Project Workflow** as these currently are in the Standard Workflow too, there are a few constraints to consider when migrating to this workflow whether you are planning to use a **[Push](/development_suite/deploy/pipeline-based/index.md)** or **[Pull](/development_suite/deploy/gitops-based/index.md)** *deploy strategy*.

When using `PUSH` mode (pipeline-based deploy) all secrets providers supported in the Standard Workflow are supported as well; You can define secrets and use them in your Projects as you always did.

When using `PULL` mode (GitOps-based deploy), only Secrets stored in Vault are currently supported. 

> Altough Standard Workflow allows you to interpolate Secret Variables on your Project, we discourage this usage pattern. This practice opens severe security implications, exposing values that are supposed to be secret as plain text when inspecting containers on Kubernetes.  

Reviewer: i should put this inside a warning banner

To avoid this bad practice to be used, Secret Variables interpolation is **not supported** on the Enhanced Project Workflow. Please make sure to fix any Secret Variable usage before migrating to the Enhanced Workflow.

#### Git Repository adjustments

With the new Workflow we changed the way Console organizes the Git repository.  

> Previously Console supported two different folder structures based on whether the Project used [`kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/migrate-to-kustomize.md) or not.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, Console supported two different folder structures based on whether the Project used [`kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/migrate-to-kustomize.md) or not.  
```

- `environments`: this one is automatically generated by the Console and contains one directory for each environment. Here are stored all the configurations files generated at each deploy.
- `configuration`: contains your global customization files to be applied to all environments. If the Project uses [`kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/manage-a-kustomize-project.md) there will be also a `kustomization.yaml` manifest file.
- `overlays`: containing one directory for each environment. Here all your environment-specific patch files are stored, as well as a `kustomization.yaml` manifest if you are using [`Kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/manage-a-kustomize-project.md).

The final repository structure should be similar to the following: 

```
├── overlays
│ ├── dev
│ │ └─── <dev custom file>
│ ├── production
│ │ └─── <prod custom file>
│ ├── other_env_id
│ │ └─── <env_id custom file>
│ └── ....
│
├── configuration
│ └─── <global custom files>
│
├── environments
│ ├── dev
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ ├── production
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ ├── other_env_id
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ └ .....
```

> :::info

Reviewer 2: this should probably be a warning?

Author: probably

All the contents of the `environments` directory are generated from scratch each time, any additional file that is not managed by the Console will be overwritten!
:::

> <br />

Reviewer 2: Why the double empty line?

Author: it is better without additional br
